---
title: Sapper a server side framework with Svelte
---
# {{ page.title }}

## A recipe to be tried for firebase
from <https://dev.to/nedwards/comment/h1l7> ...snip -->

Thanks very much for breaking this down.

I also tried following this video, 
<https://youtu.be/fxfFMn4VMpQ>
and found the workflow a bit more manageable when creating a Firebase project. Sources from video <https://github.com/sveltecasts/006-deploy-sapper-to-firebase-cloud-functions>. 


First, and then adding in a new Sapper project. I got through it without any issues, on Windows. Would have much preferred it to be a write-up like yours though, so here's a summary:

Create a new empty folder, then navigate to it in the VS Code terminal.

```bash
firebase init
```

* functions
* hosting
* use an existing project you've created on Firebase
* no ESLint
* don't install dependencies now
* public directory: functions/static (Sapper project will go into functions folder)
* SPA: no

Move or rename ``package.json``, and delete ``.gitignore`` (sapper will create these for us later)

```bash
cd functions
npx degit sveltejs/sapper-template#rollup --force
```


Copy contents of ``scripts`` block (Firebase commands) from old ``package.json`` into ``scripts`` block of new ``package.json`` that was generated by Sapper.
Rename Firebase's ``start`` command to ``fb_start``.

Copy entire ``engines`` block from old to new ``package.json``, and change node version to 10.

Copy over contents of ``dependencies`` and ``devDependencies`` blocks.

Delete old ``package.json``, once all Firebase stuff is moved over, and save the new Sapper one.

Remove polka from dependencies in ``package.json``.

```bash
npm install --save express
npm install
```


``server.js``:
* import express instead of polka
* change function to: ``const expressServer = express()``...
* change ``.listen`` to ``if (dev) { expressServer.listen`` ... ``}``
* ``export { expressServer }``

``index.js``:
* ``const {expressServer} = require('./__sapper__/build/server/server')``
* ``exports.ssr = functions.https.onRequest(expressServer);``

```bash
npm run build
npm run dev
```

localhost:3000 will show the Firebase default ``index.html`` from static folder, which can be deleted.
Page reload will bring up Sapper project.

``firebase.json``:

* ``"rewrites": [ { "source": "**", "function": "ssr" }]``

```bash
npm run build
firebase deploy
```

Visit app and click around, refresh to verify functionality.

Try Postman, send a GET to your project URL.
In output, look for confirmation that content is SSR.

``package.json``:
* ``"deploy": "npm run build && firebase deploy"``

``Nav.svelte``:
* add a new ``li`` to the navbar, for a new page

``routes``:
* create new ``.svelte`` page, and add some quick HTML content

```bash
npm run deploy
```
Verify new content shows.
Run audit from Chrome dev tools.

<-- snip..
